
Pre-rendering and Data Fetching
Creating a simple blog architecture
The blog posts in our example will be stored as local markdown files in our application's directory (not fetched from an external data source), so we'll need to read the data from the file system.

In this section, we'll go through the steps of creating a blog that reads markdown data from the file system.

Creating the markdown files
First, create a new top-level directory called posts (this is not the same as pages/posts) in your root folder. Inside posts, create two files: pre-rendering.md and ssg-ssr.md.

Now, copy the following code to posts/pre-rendering.md:

---
title: 'Two Forms of Pre-rendering'
date: '2020-01-01'
---

Next.js has two forms of pre-rendering: **Static Generation** and **Server-side Rendering**. The difference is in **when** it generates the HTML for a page.

- **Static Generation** is the pre-rendering method that generates the HTML at **build time**. The pre-rendered HTML is then _reused_ on each request.
- **Server-side Rendering** is the pre-rendering method that generates the HTML on **each request**.

Importantly, Next.js lets you **choose** which pre-rendering form to use for each page. You can create a "hybrid" Next.js app by using Static Generation for most pages and using Server-side Rendering for others.
Then, copy the following code to posts/ssg-ssr.md:

---
title: 'When to Use Static Generation v.s. Server-side Rendering'
date: '2020-01-02'
---

We recommend using **Static Generation** (with and without data) whenever possible because your page can be built once and served by CDN, which makes it much faster than having a server render the page on every request.

You can use Static Generation for many types of pages, including:

- Marketing pages
- Blog posts
- E-commerce product listings
- Help and documentation

You should ask yourself: "Can I pre-render this page **ahead** of a user's request?" If the answer is yes, then you should choose Static Generation.

On the other hand, Static Generation is **not** a good idea if you cannot pre-render a page ahead of a user's request. Maybe your page shows frequently updated data, and the page content changes on every request.

In that case, you can use **Server-Side Rendering**. It will be slower, but the pre-rendered page will always be up-to-date. Or you can skip pre-rendering and use client-side JavaScript to populate data.